# Introduction: 

- Solidity is a contact-oriented, high level programming language for implementing smart contracts.
- Solidity is statically typed, supports inheritance, libraries and complex user-defined types programming language.
- It is a statically typed object-oriented(contract-oriented) language.
-  Solidity is highly influenced by Python, c++, and JavaScript which run on the Ethereum Virtual Machine(EVM).
- Solidity supports complex user-defined programming, libraries, and inheritance.
- Solidity is the primary language for blockchains running platforms.
- Solidity can be used to create contracts like voting, blind auctions, crowdfunding, multi-signature wallets, etc.

### Ethereum Virtual Machine(EVM) 

Ethereum Virtual Machine abbreviated as EVM is a runtime environment for executing smart contracts in ethereum. It focuses widely on providing security and execution of untrusted code using an international network of public nodes. EVM is specialized to prevent Denial-of-service attack and confirms that the program does not have any access to each other’s state, also ensures that the communication is established without any potential interference.

### Smart Contract

Smart contracts are high-level program codes that are compiled to EVM byte code and deployed to the ethereum blockchain for further execution. It allows us to perform credible transactions without any interference of the third party, these transactions are trackable and irreversible. Languages used to write smart contracts are Solidity (a language library with similarities to C and JavaScript), Serpent (similar to Python, but deprecated), LLL (a low-level Lisp-like language), and Mutan (Go-based, but deprecated).

**Example:** In the below example, we have discussed a sample solidity program to demonstrate how to write a smart contract in Solidity.****

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
pragma solidity >= 0.4.16 < 0.9.0;
/// @title A contract for demonstrate how to write a smart contract
/// @author Jitendra Kumar
/// @notice For now,this contract just show to set the value of state variable,calculate the sum and get this sum value from the smart contract
 
contract Test
{
     
    // Declaring state variables
    uint public var1;
    uint public var2;
    uint public sum;
   
    // Defining public function 
    // that sets the value of 
    // the state variable
    function set(uint x, uint y) public
    {
        var1 = x;
        var2 = y;
        sum=var1+var2;
    }
       
    // Defining function to
    // print the sum of
    // state variables
    function get(
    ) public view returns (uint) {
        return sum;
    }
}
```

# Basic Syntax :

- The First line is a pragma directive which tells the compiler in which Solidity version the source code is written for.
	- eg. - `pragma solidity ^x.x.x;`
- A Pragma directive is always local to a source file and if you import another file, the pragma from that file will not automatically apply to the importing file.
- Any text between a `//` and the end of the line will be treated as a comment and is ignored by Solidity Compiler.
- Any text between the characters `/*` and `*/` will be treated as a comment. This may span multiple lines.

## Variables: 

- Solidity supports three types of variables: 
	- State Variables - Variables whose values are permanently stored ina contract storage.
	- Local Variables - Variables whose values are present till function is excecuting.
	- Global Variables - Special Variables exists in the global namespace used to get information about the blockchain.

## Variable Scope : 

Scope of the local variables is limited to function in which they are defined but State variables can have three types of scopes: 

- Public - Public state variables can be accessed internally as well as via messages. For a public state variable, an automaticic getter function gets generated.
- Internal - Internal State can be accessed only internally from the current contract or contract deriving from it without using this.
- Private - Private State variables can be accessed only internally from the current contract they are defined not in the derived contract from it.

